Story Recapped here. Today,
I’m going to explain a drama,
horror, sci-fi film called, “Sputnik.”
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
During the Cold War in 1983, two Russian
cosmonauts, Commander Konstantin Veshnyakov
and Lieutenant Kirill Averchenko complete
the final leg of the “Orbit-4” space mission.
Averchenko talks about his excitement to see
his family as they prepare for an atmospheric
reentry towards the earth. After executing all
the system procedures, the two men are finally
ready to descend. As they begin to enter the
earth’s atmosphere, powerful turbulence suddenly
causes their spacecraft to shake vigorously,
forcing the system to fluctuate. As both men
try to regain their composure, they notice
a silhouette of a non-terrestrial creature,
lumbering across the window toward them.
The Orbit-4 spacecraft enters the earth’s
atmosphere as it crash-landed in the fields
of Kazakhstan with only Konstatin surviving.
Inside The Research Institute of
Brain in Moscow, Dr. Tatyana Yurievna,
a psychiatrist and a renowned neurophysiologist,
stands on trial for alleged malpractice.
She explains that her patient was improperly
diagnosed by the previous doctor and insists
that the method of submerging the patient into
the water is necessary to temporarily cut the
oxygen supply inside the lungs. In the end,
Tatyana is sanctioned for dismissal. Meanwhile,
Colonel Semiradov, Head Secretary of the Soviet
Union’s Scientific Research, spectates her
proceedings from afar. Impressed by her forthright
attitude, he approaches Tatyana and presents a
proposition. Semiradov tells Tatyana that he
runs a research institute for neuropsychiatry.
He persuades her that he will take care of the
review board if she goes with him to Kazakhstan
to work on a case. Showing no reluctance,
Tatyana takes the helicopter with Semiradov,
heading their way to Kazakhstan. Inflight,
Semiradov discloses how they had to falsify the
media reports about the recent Orbit-4 landing.
He then tells Tatyana how they lost radio contact
with them on the day before they landed. And the
patient, sole survivor Commander Konstantin, who
was then retrieved near the spacecraft’s remains,
suddenly suffers from episodic memory loss.
They soon arrive at the All-Union Scientific
Research Institute. As they head to one of the
underground labs, Semiradov tells Tatyana that
she has access to 90% of the facility. They
find Dr. Yan Rigel, the Research Director of the
institute, attempting to hypnotize Konstantin.
After a few minutes of bad luck, Rigel
ends the session in disappointment.
As Rigel vents his frustration out, Tatyana
enters the glass confinement to meet Konstantin.
She introduces herself and offers him a cup of
tea. Just as he grabs the cup, Tatyana observes
his every movement keenly. She explains that
she was requested to assess his condition.
Then she shows an indifferent expression towards
him and suddenly asks about his toy. Despite
Tatyana’s impoliteness, Konstantin graciously
answers that it’s a cosmonaut’s tradition to bring
one personal possession with them in space. After
a few minutes of running through the initial stage
of the interview, Konstantin asks Tatyana’s help
to contact his mother to tell her that he’s doing
well. Neither confirming to agree nor disagree,
she then takes her leave. On the other side of
the glass confinement, she tells her colleagues
that the patient is suffering from P.T.S.D,
or Posttraumatic Stress Disorder, and explains
that his sensory receptors may be damaged as
she expresses her disapproval of confining
Konstantin more of a prisoner than a patient.
After stating her case, Tatyana tells Semiradov
that she's already done and now intends to leave.
Tatyana is scheduled for the next day’s flight
to Moscow, without a choice, she is compelled
to stay for the night. After making up her
room, she then goes to the telephone to grant
Konstantin’s request to call his mother, but the
operator denies her attempt. Later that night,
Semiradov knocks on her door, bringing her back
to the lab. A group of soldiers suddenly arrives,
moving quickly to secure an additional set
of latches around Konstantin’s confines.
Then on a monitor screen, Tatyana
watches Konstantin struggle as he spews
blood on the floor, after which an embryo of a
non-terrestrial creature comes out from his mouth.
Seeing the creature come to
life, she spaces out in extreme
terror. Tatyana then clings around
herself, trying to keep herself together.
Semiradov explains that the creature resides
inside Konstantine. The creature comes out
from its host during the night. Although it may
look like Konstantin suffers in pain, it exits
and enters his body without really harming him.
Tatyana is suspicious and demands the reason why
they want her to work on this classified case.
Semiradov admits that he chose her because of her
radical approach in the medical field regardless
of the process in order to get certain results.
Instead of being flattered, Tatyana feels
that her abilities are being challenged.
She then pensively demands all the classified
materials to properly officiate the case.
Tatyana finds out about the nature of the
creature as she examines the results of
the previous experiments when they tried
to separate the creature from its host.
Without the creature, Konstantin’s vital signs
progressively deteriorate; while at the same time,
he acquires phenomenal vitality and exceptional
healing capabilities when the creature is inside
his body. The creature incubates itself
between Konstantin's esophagus and stomach;
and every time it urges to exit its host,
it induces a toxin that relaxes the muscles,
knocking its host unconscious as it ventures
outside. Its ability to withstand outside its
host’s body increases by a fraction of ten
minutes on every occasion; and currently,
the creature can stay outside for over an hour.
Tatyana is determined to find out whether the
creature is a parasite or a symbiote that
bonds with its host, creating a single entity.
Meanwhile, as Tatyana reviews
the footage of the creature,
Dr. Rigel enters the room. She then asks Rigel how
the creature feeds. Rigel explains that it gets
its nutrients from the food that Konstantin eats.
As Tatyana notices Rigel’s enmity towards her,
she sarcastically clarifies that she is not after
his position nor his aim for the Nobel Prize.
Later on, she makes an appointment with Konstantin
and catches him inside his cell exercising.
Konstantin confronts Tatyana that she might
presumably be drawn to him and accuses her that
she willingly presented herself to officiate
this case. Tatyana sarcastically informs him
that she is more likely to think that he is
deranged. Catching his attention, Konstantin asks
her to elaborate. She discloses that the whole
institution thinks that he killed his co-pilot,
Averchenko. After finding Averchenko dead as soon
as they have landed, there is no other person that
is likely to be suspected except him. Showing
signs of aggravation, Konstantin realizes that
it could be the whole reason why they held him
in detention. As he conveys how he prepares for
this moment of truth, he insists that he didn't
know how it happened if it did really happen.
Ignoring his claim, Tatyana adds that she
read on his profile that he abandoned his son.
She accuses him of being self-centered to have
chosen his career as a space crew rather than to
be a father to his child. Konstantin is offended
and asks her to leave. She then quickly returns
to her infuriated colleagues and apologizes
for her menial manner towards Konstantin.
She orders them to test his endocrine levels as
she explains that she intended to aggravate him
on purpose to increase his psychological stress
in order to accurately determine how the creature
reacts to hormonal change. Afterward, she asks
Semiradov to transfer Konstantin into a medical
unit during daylight hours and to allow him
to interact with other people in an attempt
to recreate a normal life circumstance for
him to obtain a realistic clinical approach.
The next day, Tatyana pays Konstantin a visit
to his assigned medical unit. She apologizes for
provoking him intentionally just to measure
his hormone levels under severe distress.
Konstantin sits down silently, turning his
back on her. As Tatyana is about to leave,
he suddenly tells her that he didn’t know
about the child. A week before his flight he
was informed about his fiance’s death. His fiance
didn’t have any relatives so his son was brought
into an orphanage without his knowledge.
The government concealed that information
from him in order to prevent him from making
any sudden decisions prior to their mission.
Then Konstantin approaches her and tells her
about his suspicion that she stayed not to
cure him of amnesia but for a far greater
reason. Tatyana falls silent for a while,
and as she stares at him, she tells him that
she is not allowed to disclose anything.
On that night, Tatyana stands behind the glass
confinement as Konstantin lies unconsciously
on the floor. The creature walks towards her,
scanning her on the other side of the glass.
Tatyana demonstrates to show how she lies
on the floor. Observing her movements,
the creature imitates her position. She then
accidentally knocks Konstantin's toy as she stands
up. As the toy staggers, the creature looks at it
in fascination. Tatyana then puts on a protective
suit and demands to raise the glass. Without
anything in between them, she places the toy
in front of the creature. All of the sudden, the
creature twines around the toy unexpectedly, as
if a predator protecting its offspring. Looking in
astonishment, Tatyana tries to lay a hand on the
creature but suddenly slips on the slime in the
attempt, causing the creature to react violently.
Semiradov immobilizes the creature by switching
the bright lights on. Then he immediately lures
the glass down as the soldiers pull Tatyana
to safety.
Right after the incident, Semiradov checks
on Tatyana. Excited about her new discovery,
she tells him how Konstantin’s subconscious
self embodies the creature’s mind after
noticing how the creature reacted towards
the toy. She hypothesizes that it reacted
in such a way because the toy reminds him
about the guilt he feels towards his son.
She is convinced that Konstantin and the creature
are a single entity and share the same conscious
mind. She assesses that the creature partially
alleviates Konstantin's memory and social skills,
causing amnesia. She then concludes that at some
point, the creature will no longer need its host.
She suggests bringing Konstantin
to Moscow for proper treatment but
is instantly rejected by the Colonel.
Semiradov justifies that he makes fake
reports every day to protect his comrade and
to substantially avoid getting an order from
the higher ops to destroy the creature and
most likely eliminate Konstantin as well.
Tatyana once again reviews the videos and happens
to notice some parts of the footage were edited.
She then confronts Rigel about her suspicion
that the creature might not be feeding on what
Konstantin takes in for himself but entirely feeds
itself separately. She asserts that in order for
her to lead a sound investigation, she demands
the right to know about everything. Rigel reacts
distressfully as he threatens her, telling her
to go back to Moscow. Tatyana then reminds Rigel
about the Nobel Prize after which she insists that
he won’t make any progress without her expertise
as she convinces Rigel to provide her all the
information without letting Semiradov know.
Later that night, Rigel takes Tatyana
during the creature’s feeding sessions.
Concealing herself at the back of Rigil’s truck,
she’s able to sneak inside the feeding chamber.
Rigil hands her a night-vision telescope in order
for her to completely observe the whole procedure.
In a large cage, the soldiers locked
in one of the prisoners inside.
Due to its sensitivity towards bright lights, the
feeding must be done in a low light condition as
they bring forth the creature to its human prey.
The creature shows itself to its victims first in
order to expand their fear, letting the brain
increase its cortisol production from which
the creature feeds and obtains its nutrition.
The next morning, Tatyana invites Konstantin
for a run around the facility’s compound. As they
do their rounds, Tatyana secretly tells him about
the alien creature from outer space that’s inside
him. Then she continues about her recent discovery
that the creature feeds on people. She then
explains that she can help him separate the
creature from himself, but in order to do that,
they need someone that can inform the government
regarding his condition. He acts as if he heard
nothing from Tatyana and quickly turns around.
Just as before Konstantin finishes his
run, he instructs her to meet him at
midnight on the hallway that
is located close to the lab.
At exactly midnight, both Konstantin and
Tatyana are able to meet at the rendezvous.
They remain covert, slipping in the hallway,
heading towards the facility’s morgue. Konstantin
confesses that he is the creature himself, a
version of himself without morals nor obligations.
He admits that he feels everything it feels and
clearly remembers every detail of what it sees.
Then she asks for the reason why he keeps it for
himself if he already knew what was happening
from the beginning. He justifies that if ever
Semiradov knows that he can control the creature,
the more that he will be kept in custody.
He plans to endure everything for two weeks
before getting a discharge order from the review
board; however, Tatyana disapproves of the thought
that he needs to feed on people for
another two weeks. This creates a
great deal of disagreement between them.
Upon returning to her room, one of the soldiers
intercepts her and takes her to Semiradov’s
office. She then confronts Semiradov about feeding
people to the creature. He admits that the real
reason they are here is to find a way to control
the creature, turning it into an effective weapon.
He then takes her to the feeding chamber and
locks her inside the cage together with two other
prisoners. From a distance, the creature quickly
moves in to attack one of the frightened inmates
when Tatyana suddenly stands in front of it,
protecting the man behind her. The creature
shows hostility but was seized by Tatyana’s
determination to defend the man. Witnessing
its marvel, Semiradov subjugates Tatyana to
cooperate with him to investigate how to fully
control the creature as he threatens her life.
Tatyana forces herself to work the next day. She
decides to study the catatonic body of Averchenko
with Rigel, to unravel the truth behind the
creature’s decision for choosing Konstantin
over him. She finds out that Averchenko has an
early stage of cancer that they couldn’t detect
prior to lift-off. It started with a kidney tumor
that eventually causes Addison’s Disease, a rare
disorder of adrenal insufficiency, preventing the
body to produce high concentrations of metabolic
hormones that include cortisol. The creature was
able to detect Averchenko’s condition, causing it
to choose Konstantin as its host. As she calls
Rigel to examine Averchenko’s body, she hides
her message using medical jargon, stating: At 2
P.M. by the medical unit, they will attempt an
escape together with him. Using the same cryptic
language, Rigel refuses to connive with them.
Continuing their conversation with the same
language, Tatyana manages to convince him.
He then provides Tatyana with a bag that
contains a sedative. Without a moment to waste,
Tatyana approaches the guard and quickly injects
the sedative in his neck, knocking him down. She
then takes his gun, gives it to Rigel, and
asks him to be on the lookout as she steps
inside Konstantin’s room. Tatyana finds Konstantin
weeping on the floor, feeling sorry for himself.
Regardless, she tells him her plan
to escape and convinces him to do so.
As they leave the room, Rigel hands Tatyana the
keys to his vehicle and tells them where to find
it. Rigel chooses to stay, telling them that there
is something that he needs to do in order to make
everything right — they then exchange sincere
farewells. Looking at Tatyana and Konstantin
heading for the exits, Rigel rushes towards
his office as he securely locks the doors with
a table. Then he calls the authorities, reporting
the incident. Meanwhile, in the surveillance room,
Semiradov looks at Tatyana and Konstantin
running off. He then executes a directive
to retrieve Konstantin alive, and all at
once, a shoot to kill order for Tatyana.
At the enclosure, the response team
is already holding their position,
waiting for them to surrender. As Tatyana tries
to move away from Konstantin while she raises
her hand, the response team suddenly shoots her.
Taking a bullet to the gut, she is lucky enough
that they missed killing her. On the other
hand, Semiradov manages to get inside his
office after Rigel discloses all the information
to the authorities regarding their operations.
Rigel tells Semiradov that he has already informed
them about their illegal activities. Expressing
his grave disappointment towards Rigel’s
disloyalty, Semiradov shoots him dead on his seat.
Back at the enclosure, hiding behind the
crates, the response team slowly closes in.
Tatyana then throws the syringe that contains a
cocktail of hormones that can imitate the effects
of Addison’s Disease, forcing the creature
to leave his body immediately. The creature
suddenly appears in front of the soldiers,
attacking them one by one. Then Tatyana
quickly drags Konstantin inside Rigel’s jeep and
rapidly drives it crashing through the gates.
Semiradov arrives a little too late at
the enclosure. Discovering that Tatyana
and Konstantin had already fled, he decides
to take the creature out all by himself.
Driving at daybreak, Tatyana suddenly stops
to check on Konstantin's severe condition.
Just behind them, Semiradov and his team
are closing in. Feeling helpless, Tatyana
approaches them and admits she was wrong to think
that Konstantin can survive without the creature.
Semiradov takes out the heavily injured creature
with the intention to force it back inside
Konstantin. As Konstantin becomes completely
symbiotic with the creature, he then transfers
his consciousness to the symbiote, killing
Semiradov and his team. Clear from all the danger,
the creature reenters Konstantin’s body, and in
a few seconds, Konstantin regains his vitality.
Looking from afar, they see the authorities
coming in. Now able to heave a sigh of relief,
Konstantin tells Tatyana that he has finally made
his decision just as he subsequently pulls the
trigger to kill the creature — alongside himself.
Tatyana survives and now leads a free life. After
quite some time, after all that's been done,
she is now ready to lead a new life together
with her adoptive son, the son of the
late Commander Konstantin Veshnyakov.